Update the documentation related to Artifact sync feature in 3.2.0 (#4225)
wso2/docs-apim: en/docs/install-and-setup/setup/distributed-deployment/synchronizing-artifacts-in-a-gateway-cluster.md

[![artifact synchronizer architecture]({{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/artifact-synchronizer-architecture.png)]({{base_path}}/assets/img/learn/artifact-synchronizer-architecture.png)

1. If an API is published, edited, or removed, the Synapse artifact corresponding to the API will be stored/updated in the storage through the configured extension point.
2. An event will be sent to Traffic Manager (TM) using event notifiers with the API Name, UUID, and the Gateway label of the API.
3. In a distributed deployment, Gateways are subscribed to the Traffic Manager. The API Gateway will filter out the events by the Gateway label. 
4. Gateway will request for the artifacts related to the event received from the Traffic manager.
5. Traffic Manager will connect to the database and fetch the artifacts.

> 6. Gateway will receive the artifacts and deploy. If the API is already deployed in the gateway, It will first undeploy it and redeploy with the retrieved artifacts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The Gateway will receive the artifacts and deploy. If the API is already deployed in the Gateway, it will first undeploy it and redeploy with the retrieved artifacts.
```

Author: Fixed with c71a601

Gateways are subscribed to the Traffic Manager. There is an extension in the Gateway to get the Synapse artifacts and deploy them in the memory. Gateways can subscribe to multiple labels.

### Gateway Labels and Environments

> If you need to deploy an API in a specific gateway, you could use either [Gateway Labels]({{base_path}}/learn/api-gateway/maintaining-separate-production-and-sandbox-gateways/#gateway-labels) or [Gateway Environments]({{base_path}}/learn/api-gateway/maintaining-separate-production-and-sandbox-gateways) to expose that particular Gateway. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to deploy an API in a specific Gateway, you could use either [Gateway Labels]({{base_path}}/learn/api-gateway/maintaining-separate-production-and-sandbox-gateways/#gateway-labels) or [Gateway Environments]({{base_path}}/learn/api-gateway/maintaining-separate-production-and-sandbox-gateways) to expose that particular Gateway. 
```

Reviewer: Let's have all compontent names in title case. For example, Traffic Manager, Gateway, Publisher, etc. Please fix in all instances.

Author: Fixed with c71a601

     |event_waiting_time| You can use this  element to specify an event waiting time in milliseconds (ms) for Gateway. The Gateway will wait for the time specified in this configuration after receiving an event. This ensures that artifact retrieval is not ahead of artifact updates in the Publisher; thereby, avoiding inconsistencies. The default waiting time will be 1 ms.|

#### Retrieve artifacts from the storage

Once the Inbuilt Artifact Synchronizer is enabled, runtime artifacts will no longer be saved to the file system (`<API-M_HOME>/repository/deployment/server/synapse-configs/default` directory as XMLs). Instead they will be saved as blobs in the database.
However, for debugging purposes or recovery purposes, you can use the [Gateway REST API]({{base_path}}/develop/product-apis/gateway-apis/gateway-v1/gateway-v1/#tag/Get-API-Artifacts) to view artifacts, redeploy artifacts or undeploy artifacts. 

!!! note
    Please note that Gateway REST API operations are local to that gateway deployment. If there are multiple gateway nodes in the cluster,
    undeploying the artifacts with the REST API resource in one gateway node will not undeploy from the entire cluster. 

!!! tip

>     Even though the artifacts are not getting saved to the file system, if we add a valid xml with the relevent run time artifacts(retrieved from the [Gateway REST API](https://apim.docs.wso2.com/en/3.2.0/develop/product-apis/gateway-apis/gateway-v1/gateway-v1/#tag/Get-API-Artifacts)) to the  `<API-M_HOME>/repository/deployment/server/synapse-configs/default/api` directory,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Even though the artifacts are not getting saved to the file system, if we add a valid XML with the relevant runtime artifacts (retrieved from the [Gateway REST API]({{base_path}}/develop/product-apis/gateway-apis/gateway-v1/gateway-v1/#tag/Get-API-Artifacts)) to the  `<API-M_HOME>/repository/deployment/server/synapse-configs/default/api` directory,
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

>     it will undeploy the current Artifact and deploy the API from the file system. This can be used to debug the behavior of the artifact. However this is not recommended as it can cause inconsistencies in the runtime artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    it will undeploy the current artifact and deploy the API from the file system. This can be used to debug the behavior of the artifact. However this is not recommended as it can cause inconsistencies in the runtime artifacts.
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

Add the tables of the `AM_GW_API_ARTIFACTS` and `AM_GW_PUBLISHED_API_DETAILS` to this new database that you are specifying. 
The scripts to create these tables are in the `<API-M_HOME>/dbscripts/apimgt/` directory.

## FAQ About Inbuilt Artifact Synchronizer

### In this architecture, does the Gateway requires a database connection?
No. Gateway does not need to connect with the database to pull the artifacts. It requests from the Traffic Manager and Traffic Manager connects with the database. In this architecture
Traffic Manager plays a vital roles and maintain the connections with the database.

### If 1st request (i.e saving artifacts to DB) failed and 2nd request (i.e events to TM) success, what will happen? Is this working as a transactional base? (optimistic or pessimistic)

> This will not happen as the event to the Traffic Manager with the published Gateway label will only be sent after a successful DB update. 2nd request will not be sent if the 1st step fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will not happen as the event to the Traffic Manager with the published Gateway label will only be sent after a successful DB update. The second request will not be sent if the first step fails.
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

> ### If (1) success (2) success but (3) failed in between, whats sort of recovery procedure TM would follow to make sure Gateways received all the events?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**If the first and second requests succeed, but the third request fails in between, what is the recovery procedure the Traffic Manager would follow to make sure Gateways received all the events?**
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

> Since we are sending the events through JMS topics, it is guaranteed that the events will be received by the Gateway if it is subscribed. Since JMS guarantees the delivery of the message, we haven't implemented a recovery procedure during these steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since we are sending the events through JMS topics, it is guaranteed that the events will be received by the Gateway if it is subscribed. Since JMS guarantees the delivery of the message, we have not implemented a recovery procedure during these steps.
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

However if the Gateway is down and could not receive the event, next startup will sync with the database, pull the latest artifacts and deploy.

> ### If (1) success, (2) success (3) success (4) failing indefinitely, and whats the immediate recovery option?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**If the first three requests succeed and the fourth fails indefinitely, and what is the immediate recovery option?**
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

If 4 fails, the received event will not deploy or undeploy the API in the Gateway. You can use the Gateway Rest API to redeploy the artifact in the Gateway node. Restarting the server will also resolve all the missing events and update the Gateway status to the latest.

> ### How are the Traffic Manager execution plans are handled in this version. Is the DBSaver/DBRetriever handle Traffic Manager or ESB artifacts ?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How are the Traffic Manager execution plans handled in this version? Does the DBSaver/DBRetriever handle Traffic Manager or ESB artifacts ?
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

Add the tables of the `AM_GW_API_ARTIFACTS` and `AM_GW_PUBLISHED_API_DETAILS` to this new database that you are specifying. 
The scripts to create these tables are in the `<API-M_HOME>/dbscripts/apimgt/` directory.

## FAQ About Inbuilt Artifact Synchronizer

> ### In this architecture, does the Gateway requires a database connection?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In this architecture, does the Gateway require a database connection?
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

No. Gateway does not need to connect with the database to pull the artifacts. It requests from the Traffic manager and traffic manager connects with the database. In this architecture

> traffic manager plays a vital roles and maintain the connections with the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Traffic Manager plays a vital role and maintains the connections with the database.
```

Author: Fixed with 1269526

> ### If 1st request (i.e saving artifacts to DB) failed and 2nd request (i.e events to TM) success, what will happen? Is this working as a transactional base? (optimistic or pessimistic)

Reviewer: Shall we make all questions bold and remove the heading tags? Otherwise this gets listed in the right side menu as well and becomes difficult to read.

Author: Fixed with 1269526
